Over the past few years, we have all looked forward to what has affectionately been called the Inside Story.
This time it will be conducted by another one of the Gilead Instructors, Brother Richard Chilton.
Take it away, Brother Chilton.
Welcome to this edition of the Inside Story.
At Joshua chapter 24 verse 15, the tribes of Israel were instructed to choose for themselves whom they would serve.
Well, our foreguess today have had to make some choices of their own.
Choices that no doubt contributed to their qualifying to attend the 149th class of Gilead.
Let's learn more about the choices they made and who helped them to do so as we meet our first guest, Brother Sanghili from South Korea.
Welcome, Sanghili.
Thank you.
Please have a seat.
Well, Sanghili, you come from a family of worshipers that have been faithfully serving Jehovah for three generations.
Tell us about them.
Yes, it began with my grandmother.
She was the first to become a witness back in 1970.
I'm so grateful to Jehovah that all in my family, my parents, my sister and her husband and my brothers and their wives are all serving faithfully Jehovah to this day.
Well, that's certainly a wonderful heritage to be a part of.
Now, your current assignment is at the branch office in Korea.
How long have you been serving there?
Well, if you count the first one and a half years I served at Bethel, that would be nine and a half years.
I say that because I was reassigned.
I actually left Bethel to go to prison.
Well, now that's not something we typically hear as a reason for leaving Bethel, is it? What happened?
You see, in South Korea, all males become eligible for military conscription when they turn 19, and a draft notice comes sometime after that.
As for us Jehovah's Witnesses, because we refuse military service, the result would be a year and a half sentence in prison, but you may not go right away.
Now, that's interesting. What would be the factors that would determine when your prison sentence would actually begin?
From the time you receive a draft notice until you actually go to prison, especially in recent times, that time period was unknown and different for each brother.
A lot depended on the judge you get.
As for me, I had to wait five years from the time I first appeared in the court until I finally went into prison.
Well, was that frustrating for you to, in effect, have your life be placed on hold for five years?
Honestly, yes. But understanding that I could go into prison at any moment, I had to make a choice.
Choice as to how I was going to spend my time.
Do I use that time just staying at home, doing nothing, planning nothing since I could go into prison at any moment?
Or do I use that time to earn some money for the time when I'm finally released from prison?
Or do I use my life to the full, pursuing spiritual things first while I could do so freely?
Well, that's quite the situation to be in. What was your thought process through that?
What did you decide to do given those circumstances?
So the first thing I did was pray. I prayed and prayed.
And while doing research, I came across an article in December 1, 2004, Issue of the Watch Tower, which was entitled Trusting in Juhova's Care.
In that article, there was a quote that said, we should plan ahead as if Armageddon would not come in our lifetime.
But live our life as if it would come tomorrow.
Well, that was the answer I needed. So I decided to plan ahead as if my prison term wasn't coming tomorrow.
Okay, so given those options that you mentioned to us a minute ago, what did you decide to do?
So I decided to pioneer. I also volunteered at the International Convention.
Here I'm welcoming the delegates as they arrive to their hotel. I also got even accepted to Bethel.
Here I'm working in my assignment. And here are the brothers and sisters working in the computer department where I work.
How nice.
Well, let me ask you, how do you feel something that you benefited by choosing to pursue spiritual pursuits,
why you were waiting for those five years?
Pioneering and Bethel service really helped me to prepare my heart for the time when the call finally came to go to prison.
And it was during this period that I really grew spiritually.
Well, I guess pioneering and Bethel can have that positive effect on a person, can't it?
But the day did finally arrive, didn't it? When you had to leave and begin your prison sentence,
we can only imagine what a sobering moment that was for you. Do you mind telling us about it?
Yes, when the day came, many in the Bethel family, they came outside to wave me off and to cheer me on.
It was a moment that I'll never forget. One brother, he even said, he will always remember me in his heart.
And I really cherish what he said to me.
Well, that was very encouraging, no doubt. Do you mind talking about how life was for you in prison?
There were definitely moments when I felt anxious.
But my three fleshly brothers and many other Korean brothers, they also served their time in prison.
And their choices and experiences helped me decide how I was going to spend my time in prison.
So I decided to make a list right away, what to do while I'm in prison.
I made some spiritual goals, such as reading Proclaimers book and reading other publications.
And a group of about seven to eight brothers in the same prison cell, we discussed a daily text together every day.
And in the evening, we called it evening worship, similar to morning worship in Bethel.
Well, that was certainly wise use of the time that you had there.
What can you tell us about the current situation in South Korea for our brothers in connection with military service?
Just a few months ago, the authorities adopted alternative service for proven conscientious objectors.
Under this arrangement, you are not labeled as a convicted criminal.
And you don't live in a prison cell, but live in a more communal living arrangement.
But there is one thing about this alternative service.
Instead of your prison sentence being a year and a half, you have to do alternative service for three years.
Wow, okay, double the time.
You know, our hearts really go out to our brothers and our sisters that have served time in prison for righteousness sake.
You are able to complete your prison sentence. What was next for you once you were a free man?
Without hesitation, I immediately filled out another application to return to Bethel.
And I was accepted to return to Bethel.
Well, good for you. We're glad that worked out.
If we could just circle back for just one moment.
You had mentioned that there was one thing in particular that was especially helpful to you that helped you endure that difficult time in prison.
Do you mind telling us about it?
Of course, many brothers and sisters around the world, they wrote to us brothers in prison.
And I personally received a number of them.
In fact, I brought them some of them here right here with me that someone who never met me, who never knew me wrote such an encouraging comforting letters.
It really warned my hearts and really comforted me.
It made me feel that I'm never alone where I am wherever I am in the world.
And that I was part of a very special, close, loving, international brotherhood.
So I read them over and over again, and I saved all of these letters.
That is so encouraging, Sung Hee. But I have to ask you, why did you bring these letters with you to New York?
Actually, some of these letters came from satellites right here at World Headquarters.
I wanted to meet them in person and tell them how much I appreciated all those letters and prayers and how they really helped me to get through my time in prison.
Well, we could certainly understand if those would have been some terrible reunions for you.
Well, in conclusion, Sung Hee, I'll just have one last question for you.
You had mentioned earlier when you were deciding what you were going to do with the time you had before going to prison, you said the first thing that you did was pray.
Why was prayer so important to you?
Through these experiences, I'm absolutely confident that Jehovah both hears and answers our prayers when we are faced with choices.
And also, I am confident that by means of the prayers that were offered in my behalf, Jehovah helped me to stick to the choices that I had made to stay loyal to him.
So please keep praying for our brothers in prison wherever they are in the world, and please keep writing them letters.
Well, I can assure you, Sung Hee, he will continue to do just that.
Thank you so much for sharing your encouraging experience with us. It really touched our hearts.
Well, next on our program, we're going to go all the way to West Africa, and our next guest will be coming from the country of Senegal.
We'll meet Alin and Akai Tindang.
Well, Alin and Akai, welcome. Nice to have you with us on the inside story.
Thank you.
It's a pleasure to have you.
Now, I understand that your current assignment has you serving at the branch office in Senegal, West Africa.
Now, Alin, Senegal is your home, born and raised.
But Akai, I understand that you come from the neighboring country of Mali.
In fact, I was told that your mother comes from a very interesting part of the country of Mali. Can you tell us about it?
Yes, my mother is from Timbuktu.
In fact, when I was young, she took me there to visit her family.
Now, Akai, you are probably the first person that we have ever met that has actually been to Timbuktu. What is it like?
Well, as you can see on the screen, that is how the region of Timbuktu looks like. It is in the Sahara Desert, which stretches on thousands of kilometers.
Well, it's obviously a very vast territory, but what can you tell us about the people of the Timbuktu region?
The people there live a nomadic lifestyle and are nearly all Muslims. Actually, both my two parents are from a Muslim background.
Now, that's quite interesting. Given that background, what were some of the challenges that you had to face in becoming one of Jehovah's Witnesses?
Although I get baptized in 15 years of age, I didn't always made the best choices in my 10 years, and I had to suffer the consequences of those choices.
However, in my early 20s, I decided to build a strong and personal relationship with Jehovah. To be able to do so, I received help from spiritually mature brothers and sisters.
Such as pioneers, elders, missionaries. For example, this is my spiritual mother on the left side of the screen, and on the right side of the screen, her missionary companion, who is still serving in Mali faithfully for 45 years now.
All this mature person helped me to see the value of personal study and thinking ability.
Once I get this good habit of reasoning on Bible principles, I can now make good choices that pleases Jehovah, such as living my well-paying job and start pioneering.
It was not easy, however, because there was still this family pressure for me to get a good job and a good living, but I'm still striving to try to make good decisions that pleases Jehovah.
Well, that's encouraging in spite of the pressures that you had to face. You obviously continued making good decisions because you were eventually appointed to serve as a special pioneer, weren't you?
In the southern part of Mali in a region called Sikaso, tell us about that please.
Yes, I was so happy there. The preaching work was wonderful. I really enjoyed it. And this is the Kingdom Hall where I served in.
And one day, we received a visit from a circuit over here, a single circuit over here.
Okay, now that I could see when you made that comment, you looked over at a lens. So we can only assume that a lens, you were this young, handsome, single circuit over here that visited a guy's congregation in Sikaso, is that right?
Well, I visit the congregation, but we had already met previously in a circuit assembly, so we knew each other, but at the time there was nothing special going on.
Okay, well, thank you for the clarification. We appreciate that. But since we're now talking to you, Alan, maybe we could hear a little bit about your story.
Did you always want to be a circuit over here?
Well, no. In fact, when I were a boy, I wanted to become a Catholic priest.
Oh, really?
Yes. Being raised in a Catholic family, at 13, I went to get training by one of the Catholic religious order.
But after just the one year of training, I chose to live.
Although I left, I still had a love for the Bible. One day, I went to one of my friends to see if he would like to play soccer with me.
But he was about to have a Bible study with one of the hovers witnesses who were a missionary.
So I decided to stay and listen.
Over the time, I came to love really what I was studying in the Bible.
And eventually, I got baptized at the age of 17, as shown here.
Wow. Now, that's quite interesting. You had mentioned to me before that your parents are not Jehovah's Witnesses.
How did they respond to your becoming baptized as one?
Well, it was not easy for them to accept. They had expectation of me helping support the family financial.
In the same time, I wanted really to pioneer. So it took several years, much struggling.
But eventually, I was able to enter in pioneer service.
Was there anyone in your life at that time that helped you to stay spiritually focused as you were trying to achieve these spiritual goals?
Yes. Like Akai, while working toward entering in pioneer service, I too chose to associate with strong, spiritually strong one in the congregation.
Missionaries like this couple helped me to see the importance of putting and keeping first spiritual things in life.
And this helped me to remain focused.
Eventually, I was able to serve in an assigned territory going throughout the territory with my motorbike.
It was a real good time that I enjoyed there.
You know, I've always wanted one of those.
Yes. And later, I was invited to attend school for single brothers.
And after that, I was trained in the circuit work.
And this couple, shown here, that is the missionary couple that first started my Bible study,
is the one that provided the training for the circuit work.
We can only imagine they must have been so proud of you to see the spiritual progress that you have made.
But now, let's fast forward just a little bit in this story.
At this point, now you're serving as a circuit overseer.
Akai is serving as a special pioneer in Sikoso.
And Akai, you've been sitting there so patiently waiting. Thank you, by the way.
Would you like to continue the story?
Yes. When we get to know better each other, we decided to get married.
In fact, we were married in Senegal on one Tuesday.
And we had to be that same letter, that same week in Guinea-Bisao for the circuit assembly.
Okay, if we could just pause for just a moment here.
So if we're understanding this, Alen, please tell us that there were no circuit overseers,
substitute circuit overseers available in all of West Africa,
that could cover that circuit assembly for you.
You were married four days and had to be in another country for an assembly.
There was no one that could take care of that assembly for you. Really?
Well, the shilton, that was fine.
As you already know, the blessings of Jehovah are far beyond any sacrifices we can make in his service.
We really love that work. We love the being with our brothers and sisters.
Oh, yes. We really love preaching with them.
You can see in this picture, preaching with them, it's really so special to us.
Seeing them in this picture brings very nice memories, even.
Yeah. We enjoyed also being with them in their homes, seeing their strong faith,
their love for Jehovah, despite the challenges they are facing,
we really come to love them very much.
Well, just taking a look at your happy smiles on that picture there,
we could see that you not only loved the work, but you loved the people that you were serving.
But as we know, changes come, don't they?
And you received a change of assignment from the circuit work into Bethel, in synagogue.
In fact, I understand this picture was taken just two months before you came to New York
to begin your Gilea training with Brother Splein, providing a shepherding visit on your Bethel family.
Beautiful family, by the way.
Now, from our previous discussions, it became very clear to me,
how much you both love and appreciate the young people that are in our organization.
From your personal observations, what would you say were the things that you saw as key elements
to their achieving spiritual success, from your own observations?
What I have observed is that young ones who make the truth their own,
who keep their spiritual routines to be able to continue building spiritual personal relationship with Jehovah,
those who continue to be associating with spiritual mature brothers who can help them keep their focus
are those who are more successful in their Christian course of life.
I really pray Jehovah that all our young ones may have the same experience,
that they may test and see that Jehovah is good as mentioned in Psalm 34 verse 8.
If they do, they can see that Jehovah is able to open for them doors where they think that there is no door to be opened,
and that will lead them to a long and satisfying life without any regrets.
Oh, those are some beautiful comments. Thank you very much for that guy. What about you, Alev?
Well, looking back, I can see that Jehovah has really been kind and good to us.
He had provided brothers and sisters, mature ones, who helped us to have the courage to put him first in our life.
Their choices encourages us to make good choices, and Jehovah has blessed us in ways we could never foresee.
And we are confident that he will do the same with all our brothers and sisters,
including young ones who courageously put Jehovah first in their life.
Well, we thank you both so much for your encouraging comments,
and our prayer will be that Jehovah continues to bless you both as you both keep making wise decisions in his service.
Thank you so much for joining us today. Thank you.
Well, last but certainly not least, we go all the way to the country of Ukraine to meet our next final guest on our program.
Let's give our attention as we meet brother Anjel Kachuk.
Welcome, Anjel. Thank you. It's a pleasure to have you with us on the inside story today.
Now Anjel, it's often been said that a person's story takes us on a journey of a lifetime.
Your story, however, my friend, takes us on a journey of several lifetimes, isn't that true?
Yes. You know my great-great-grandfather and mother was the first Jehovah's Witnesses in my family,
and here you can see them in 1940s in Ukraine.
Well, that is definitely a wonderful heritage to be a part of.
Would you say, Anjel, that the choices that members of your family made over the years had a direct bearing on your being here attending the 149th Class of Gilead?
Definitely, yes. You know, they were serving Jehovah for many, many years.
They had very hard but interesting life, life full of many different stories.
For example, when my great-grandfather was exiled to Siberia because of being a Jehovah's Witness,
and my great-grandmother would send him magazines hidden in the bottles of pork fat.
You said pork fat.
Okay, and that sounds pretty interesting.
Can you tell us more about this secret pork fat recipe of your great-grandmother?
Okay, so my mom, she made some photos and sent it to me to explain how it was done.
So as you can see here, first this fat was melted so that you could have a liquid fat.
Then you need to wait so that this fat would become hard and thick.
Then a magazine was wrapped in the linen and hold was made in the fat.
And then this wrapped magazine was put in the hole and the more fat was put on the top to hide this magazine.
And now it's done. Now you have both physical and spiritual food in one bottle.
Well, there it is. Everything you need to survive in Siberia, right?
Well, let me ask you, did the guards in Siberia ever find those magazines hidden in pork fat?
Sadly, but yes.
And that's why they added additional five and a half years for my great-grandfather exiled time in Siberia.
But soon his son, my grandfather, was exiled to Siberia too.
And here you can see my great-grandfather on the left and my grandfather on the right.
When you shared with us some details about your great-grandfather,
what can you tell us about your grandfather depicted on the right?
You know, he was so zealous for Jehovah.
While in Siberia, he was helping in supplying by the literature for local brothers and sisters,
though it was not always safe to do it.
Well, clearly they were both courageous men.
When were your family members allowed to leave Siberia and return to the Ukraine?
It was in 1967-68.
And it was then when my great-grandfather started to reproduce Bible magazines and books and whole family helped.
That's amazing. Were there any particular methods that they used to accomplish this?
They used several different methods. For example, they used special photo machines, like you see here,
to make photos of magazines.
This and similar to these machines were used to make, so to say, handmade literature.
Well, just looking at those photos, we can see that the men in your family were both courageous and zealous.
Yes, they were. But so were the women in our family.
Here, on this photo, you can see my great-grandmother with her daughter.
And it was her who sent these magazines hidden in the bottles of pork fat.
And here you can see my grand-mother on my mother's side. She was witnessed too.
And here you can see her with her children.
And this little girl with a guitar is my mom.
And you know, once a government wanted to separate them, they wanted to have public hearing to take all her children away.
Why they wanted to do it? Because it was then when in Soviet Union, all children were forced to support political ideas of the government.
But my grand-mother's children choose not to do it.
That's interesting. The children made this choice. But what about your grand-mother?
When she's forced to make this choice between what the Communist Party was dictating and what Jehovah says, what does she do?
She wanted to prove and to show that she was a good mother.
And she was a good mother because she was Jehovah's Witness, because she believed in God.
And you know, even during this hearing, one woman stand up and screamed, don't listen to her.
As you will become Jehovah's Witness too. But people said, no, we want to hear more. So she kept going.
And when she finished, all people voted in her favor. And she had kept all her children with her.
And here you can see my grand-mother years later with her family, children, and grandchildren.
That is an absolutely incredible story. Obviously, Jehovah blessed her for her loyal efforts there.
But now, Angel, as you reflect upon the decisions that members of your family have made, how have their decisions affected you?
You know, they helped me to love Jehovah with all my heart and to put him always first in my life.
Can you provide us an example of that?
Yes. For example, in Ukraine, all young men are required to do military service. But I, like many other brothers, choose not to do it.
I choose civilian or alternative service instead. So I was still living at home, but government gives you any work they want.
And you need to do it for two years.
If you don't mind my asking, what job did they give you?
So, okay, they sent me to clean sewer and water system.
So I need to go inside these tanks, which were so filthy, and I need to clean them out.
And for me, it was really, very hard work. And sometimes I felt very sad about my situation.
Yeah, we're so sorry, Angel, that you had to go through that. But we certainly appreciate your loyalty to Jehovah at the same time.
What helped you to get through that difficult period in your life?
For me, it was my family. I would think about my grandfather, grandmother, great-grandfather and mother.
And I thought, they showed me how to do it. They showed me how to go through it.
They showed me that with Jehovah's help, I can do it.
Well, you have learned some very powerful lessons from your family.
And now, here you are at Gilead. You've completed your Gilead training, and we can only imagine how proud and happy your family must be for you.
Can you tell us what has been the highlight for you, from your Gilead training?
Yes, Gilead had helped me to see more, to understand more, and to feel more, to see more this wonderful history of Jehovah's people, this wonderful heritage we all have.
To understand more, this wonderful deep Bible gems, Bible lessons for my life, and to feel more Jehovah's love and love of brothers and sisters, especially here.
You know, my family, they had just a few magazines, a few books, and song books.
But it was enough for them to build a strong face in Jehovah.
So, in the new world, I want to see all of my big, big family, and I want to share with them this wonderful gems I learned here on Gilead while they were sleeping.
And I want to say them, thank you for setting such a good example of face for me.
Well, Angel, you have certainly touched our hearts by means of that beautiful story.
Thank you for sharing your family legacy with all of us. We really appreciated that.
Thank you.
Well, as we mentioned in our opening comments, when the tribes of Israel were instructed to choose for themselves, whom they would serve,
their response is recorded at Joshua 24 verse 18, where they said, we too will serve Jehovah, because he is our God.
A wise choice, indeed.
As we've learned from the experiences shared by our four guests today, the choices that we make do matter.
They matter to ourselves, to our family members, to our worldwide brotherhood, and especially to our loving God, Jehovah.
We hope that you have been both encouraged and motivated by the experiences you've heard today.
Until we meet again on our future edition of the Inside Story, please enjoy this brief little snapshot of Class 149.
Now, disappointed, thank you, brother children, along with the students who assisted you.